While hiring an SEO or web marketing agency may help, there are budget-friendly ways to bring leads to your company websites, like syndicating content, hosting giveaways, sharing videos and more.

A. Post Long-tail Content Twice a Day

Posting long-tail and consistent content is key to increasing traffic and getting high-quality leads. I write blog posts as if they were a question someone -- or, at least, someone who'd want to purchase my product -- would ask. For example, "What are the differences between preferred shares and warrants, and which is the best one to own?" That question hits my target audience. - Derek Capo, eFin

A. Pay for Industry Directories

Most industries have a specific online directory (or directories) that dominates search engine results when you're searching broad-term -- for instance, in our world, "website design company" or "SEO company." These directories are usually free. However, the key is to pay to be featured. You'll appear as one of the best in the industry, and the traffic will flow to your site accordingly. - Wesley Mathews, High Level Marketing

A. Use Content Amplification Services

Content amplification companies like Outbrain and Taboola can push your content to a new audience that clicks and comes to your company website to consume the content. With comprehensive software and tools, these companies are able to take a cost-effective approach that increases the strength of the content to make sure it's really getting out there to drive more leads to your company website. - Anthony Pezzotti, Knowzo.com

A. Look Into Content Syndication

A great way to increase traffic to your website is to syndicate your content with other websites, especially those that might not be in your industry. In a way, you can filter all of your content (or selected content) through to another website's page, and many more eyes will be able to reach not only your content but your brand name. Creating partnerships like this can be mutually beneficial. - Miles Jennings, Recruiter.com

A. Retarget Your Site

If you are boosting posts on Facebook and/or already running Facebook Ads, consider adding retargeting to your strategy. It's typically less expensive than the cost per conversion for additional ads. Likewise, boosting a post and retargeting anyone who clicks is another way to cut your costs. - Nicole Munoz, Start Ranking Now

A. Host Contests and Giveaways

People really engage with things of this nature. We recently did a contest, and it gave our site a lot of positive buzz at a low cost to us. - Jayna Cooke, EVENTup

A. Drive Social Traffic

With the emergence of social commerce, many companies are seeing their social media profiles serving as much as their point of conversion as their website. Evaluate the role social media can play in your own conversion (after all, that should be a major goal of your website), and see if there are more opportunities to drive traffic through active participation in a social channel. - Ross Beyeler, Growth Spark

A. Aim for SEO

Every company should focus on creating great, high-quality content, specifically targeted at their core demographic and audience. Search engine optimization (SEO) is essentially the art and science of creating quality content that serves your users, informs them, and answers their questions. Google will reward you through rankings in their search results. This can take time, so start now! - Mitch Gordon, Go Overseas

A. Publish Content on LinkedIn

Publishing content on the LinkedIn Publishing Platform, in addition to your company blog, builds owned media and allows you get in front of more people in your network. Once you hit publish on LinkedIn, all of your connections get a notification, which is automatic distribution. It's a (free) feature that is available to all LinkedIn users. - Kelsey Meyer, Influence & Co.

A. Add Videos

People like to watch videos as documented by numerous studies on consumer behavior. You don't have to hire a professional video company to produce a slick video. With today's available technology, you can make and post your own videos on your social platforms and blog to draw more people to your website where they can enjoy visual content. - Murray Newlands, Due.com

A. Engage Relevant Communities Online

For every niche, there should be plenty of forums, Facebook pages, subreddits, etc. where people are discussing it. These are great places to link to, as long as you're respectful and active in the community. Just make sure you're providing value with the insight you offer and not violating any community rules. - Matt Doyle, Excel Builders

A. Partner With Content Providers

It can't be said enough. Cross-pollinating your brand is essential to growth and increasing brand awareness in demographics which exist outside of your current consumer base. Do you have a product that a young YouTube upstart might be interested in? Partner with current YouTube content creators to increase awareness with that audience and garner interest which will eventually lead to sales. - Blair Thomas, First American Merchant

These answers are provided by the Young Entrepreneur Council (YEC), an invite-only organization comprised of the world's most promising young entrepreneurs. In partnership with Citi, YEC recently launched BusinessCollective, a free virtual mentorship program that helps millions of entrepreneurs start and grow businesses.

Follow Young Entrepreneur Council on Twitter: www.twitter.com/YEC