The Insider Picks team writes about stuff we think you'll like. Business Insider has affiliate partnerships, so we may get a share of the revenue from your purchase.

There are a couple weeks of winter weather left, but spring isn't far off; midway into March the temperatures outside should be noticeably warmer. If you havent already, it's time to prepare your closet for the impending "nice" weather.

A lightweight trench coat or mac jacket, a few short sleeve button-down shirts, a pair of crisp white sneakers  you know the drill.

If you're looking for some new items to supplement your existing seasonal threads, or you're looking to replace a few of last year's favorite pieces, look no further. We have the 12 things that'll complete your spring wardrobe below.

Scoop them up quickly; you're going to need them all soon enough.

1. A lightweight mac jacket

A mac jacket or trench coat is ideal for lightweight layering through the season. It'll look sharp over your suits when your wool topcoat starts to feel too heavy.

The luxury option: Club Monaco Lightweight Mac, $298. (Left)

The affordable one: Topman Water Resistant Single Breasted Mac Jacket, $130. (Right)

2. A cooler button-down

Once the weather turns warmer, you can start mixing short-sleeve shirts back intro your weekly rotation. These button-downs look just as smart, but will keep you much cooler than your long-sleeve options.

The luxury option: NN.07 New Derek Slim-Fit Striped Cotton Oxford Shirt, $110. (Left)

The affordable one: J.Crew Short-Sleeve Shirt in Striped Cotton-Linen, $69.50. (Right)

3. A pair of chinos

Chinos are great alternatives for days when you don't feel like wearing jeans. Depending on the color and fit you choose, they're easy to dress up or down, too.

4. A plain, neutral-colored umbrella

Be prepared for spring's many rain showers with an umbrella that's compact and strong enough to handle sudden gusts of wind. Stick with neutral colors like black and gray, as they're the most professional-looking.

The luxury option: London Undercover City Lux Malacca Wood-Handle Umbrella, $200. (Left)

The affordable one: Tumi Medium Auto Close Umbrella, $60. (Right)

5. A suede derby

Opting for suede instead of leather is a discreet way to inject some personality into an otherwise classic shoe style.

The luxury option: Paul Smith Kinney Suede Derby Shoes, $355. (Left)

The affordable one: ALDO Fantino Suede Derby Shoe, $130. (Right)

6. A water-resistant windbreaker

Ideal for rainy weather or slightly chilly evenings, every guy should keep a windbreaker in his closet.

The luxury option: Penfield Rochester Two Tone Rain Jacket, $155. (Left)

The affordable one: Uniqlo Blocktech Hooded Jacket, $79.90. (Right)

7. A pair of medium-wash jeans

No closet is complete without a couple of pairs of jeans. For spring, we generally see a transition to airier fabrics and brighter colors. In this vein, lighter denim rinses will feel most appropriate for the season.



The affordable one: Levi's Men's 511 Slim-Fit Jean in Pumped Up, $46.99. (Right)

8. A pair of white sneakers

Whether you prefer high tops or low tops, slip ons or lace ups, theres no shortage of great-looking sneakers available to shop right now. Though, you'll never go wrong with a crisp white pair.

The affordable one: adidas Originals Stan Smith Leather Sneakers, $75. (Right)

9. A blazer you can wear with everything

A smart linen or lightweight wool blazer thrown over a button-down shirt and a pair of jeans is perfect for a night out or for work. It's also a great transitional piece for crisp spring days when a full-on coat don't feel necessary anymore.



The affordable one: Banana Republic Modern Slim Navy Cotton Linen Blazer, $230. (Right)

10. A canvas laptop bag

Now's a perfect time to replace your worn-down messenger bag or briefcase. Since spring is about lightening things up a bit, you may want to consider a canvas bag over leather. These options from Topo Designs and United By Blue are stylish and professional, and roomy enough to comfortably stow most 15'' laptops.



The affordable one: United By Blue Lakeland Laptop Bag, $97.95. (Right)

11. A pair of aviator shades

Not only can the right style of sunglasses really flatter a person's face shape, they do all sorts of UV-ray protecting, too. For those who are simply after a classic look, try a pair of aviator shades.



The affordable one: J.Crew Jack Classic Aviator Sunglasses, $98. (Right)

12. A spring suit

Like the rest of your closet, suits should transition for the season. Just make sure you get whatever suit you're considering buying tailored  the fit makes all the difference.

The affordable one: Zara Wool Suit Blazer, $199; Suit Trousers, $99.90. (Right)

Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners, including Amazon. Jeff Bezos, CEO of Amazon, is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.

Read the original article on Insider Picks. Copyright 2016. Follow Insider Picks on Twitter.