JERUSALEM  They landed in Israel late at night  a man in a dark suit and traditional headdress, wheeling a suitcase; a mother, veiled, in a long black robe and holding a sleeping toddler; and a rabbi carrying a Torah scroll believed to be more than 500 years old.

They were among a final group of 19 Yemeni Jews who were spirited out of their war-torn country in recent days, the Jewish Agency for Israel announced on Monday, bringing a monthslong clandestine rescue operation to a close.

Photographs taken at Ben-Gurion International Airport near Tel Aviv by a representative of the Jewish Agency, a quasi-governmental body that deals with Jewish immigration, documented the arrival late Sunday of the last of the Yemeni Jews who wanted to go to Israel.

They are remnants of an ancient and once-vibrant group that became increasingly imperiled by violence and anti-Semitism as Yemen descended into civil war.

From Operation Magic Carpet in 1949 until the present day, the Jewish Agency has helped bring Yemenite Jewry home to Israel, Natan Sharansky, a former Soviet dissident who is the chairman of the agency, said in a statement. He was referring to the airlifts of 1949 and 1950 that brought nearly 50,000 Yemenite Jews to Israel soon after the country was established.

Photo

This chapter in the history of one of the worlds oldest Jewish communities is coming to an end, Mr. Sharansky added, but Yemenite Jewrys unique, 2,000-year-old contribution to the Jewish people will continue in the state of Israel.

Roughly 50 Jews chose to remain in Yemen, including about 40 who live in a closed compound in the countrys capital, Sana, where they are protected by the Yemeni authorities, according to the Jewish Agency.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The latest immigrants included a group of 14 from the northern Yemeni town of Raida, including the local rabbi, and a family of five from Sana.

Exactly how they reached Israel, which has no diplomatic relations with Yemen, largely remains a mystery. Two countries that long facilitated Jewish emigration from Yemen, the United States and Britain, closed their embassies in Sana last year, as did many other Western countries.

Saudi Arabia, which has no formal diplomatic relations with Israel, has imposed a naval and air blockade of Yemen. All traffic to and from Yemen is supposed to be checked by the Saudis, including flights, which stop in Saudi Arabia for inspection while traveling to or from Sana.

Photo

It was not clear whether the Yemeni Jews had left by air or sea for the first leg of their journey. Israeli officials remained tight-lipped on the subject, possibly to protect the route in case the Jews who remained behind decide at a later date to emigrate.

Arielle Di Porto, the director of Jewish immigration from distressed countries at the Jewish Agency, who coordinated the journey of the Yemeni Jews and met them upon their arrival in Israel, said only that the recent immigrants had not arrived on an Israeli plane.

The new arrivals were taken to a so-called absorption center in the southern Israeli city of Beersheba, and they have been reunited with relatives.

The family from Sana that arrived late Sunday is related to Aharon Zindani, who was killed in what was believed to be an anti-Semitic attack in 2012, the agency said. It said that it had arranged for Mr. Zindanis wife and children to emigrate soon after his murder, and that it had arranged for Mr. Zindanis remains to be brought to Israel for burial.

Yehuda Sharf, the Jewish Agencys director of immigration and absorption, said there were no longer any Jews in Raida, where a Jewish teacher, Moshe Yaish Nahari, was shot and killed by a Yemeni Air Force pilot in 2008.

All the Jews of Raida, Yemen, are with us, Mr. Sharf told Israel Radio on Monday, even the last Torah scroll.