Topics: AlterNet, Donald Trump, Jeffrey Lord, New York, Arizona, Politics News

This article originally appeared on AlterNet

As anti-Trump protesters gathered in New York and Arizona, Donald Trump continued his petty spats with Megyn Kelly and Mitt Romney. Because that seemed really important to him, and he never forgets a slight.

The candidate continued his mostly inane babbling on the campaign trail, questioning Mitt Romneys Mormonism for no apparent reason except that it popped into his free-associating mind, and asserting that he talks to himself for advice on foreign policy because he has a very good brain. Meanwhile, his insane spokespeople, Katrina Pierson and Jeffrey Lord, just kept saying things that had everyone scratching their heads. Seriously, WTF is wrong with these people?

1. Jeffrey Lord: These peaceful protests are obviously part of the violent left.

CNNs chief Trump apologist, Jeffrey Lord, was at it again Saturday as people protested Donald Trump in Arizona and New York Citys Trump Tower.

Lord, lest you have forgotten, is the historical fabulist who has already made the idiotic claim that since the Ku Klux Klan was an offshoot of the Southern Democratic party, todays left is somehow an offshoot of the Klan.

While conservative commentators like Bill OReilly are doing all they can to demonize protesters at Trump rallies, Lord has been taking it to a new level. In a piece in this weeks American Spectator titled Meet MoveOn.org: The New KKK, Lord wrote, This time around they dont use hoods and burning crosses to rally the terrorists, they use social media instead.

It does lead one to suspect he is unfamiliar with the fact that the KKK terrorized and murdered people.

While covering the anti-Trump protest, CNNs Fredericka Whitfield asked the networks highly sensible go-to Trump guy for comment. Lord started by calling himself a First Amendment freak. Then, over footage of peaceful protestors in Arizona, he said the protestors werent the nice kind with First Amendment rights, they were the violent left who, like Black Lives Matter activists and the anti-Vietnam war movement, just like to protest any old thing. The subject always changes, he said. What Im talking about here is what I call the violent left in action.

Wait, he does know that viewers can actually see the picture behind him, doesnt he?

2. David Duke: Donald Trump could be good for Hitlers reputation.

Among the other public services Trumps candidacy has provided is making David Duke feel relevant again. After Duke backed Trump, and Trump took a couple of days to decide that having white supremacist KKK-backing was maybe not a good look, Duke has stood by Trump. And he is taking advantage of his new round of fame to promote his other favorite guy, Hitler.

This week, Duke, a former representative for the good people of Louisiana, rambled thusly:

I saw a commercial against Donald Trump, a really vicious commercial, comparing what Donald Trump said about preserving America and making America great again to Hitler in Germany preserving Germany and making Germany great again and free again and not beholden to these Communists on one side, politically who were trying to destroy their land and their freedom, and the Jewish capitalists on the other, who were ripping off the nation through the banking system.

Whew. Yes, people like this still exist.

Duke does part ways with Trump over the candidates deep Jewish connections, but he still thinks Trump could win the, war on the European-American majority of the United States of America. What war on the European-American majority, you ask. We do not have an answer for you.

Dukes tortured logic finally reached the conclusion that just as (some) Americans were realizing that the Jewish-controlled media was engaged in a conspiracy against Trump, they might develop more of a soft spot for that other much-maligned guy, Hitler.

Nice company you are attracting, Mr. Trump.

3. Donald Trump gave the most laughably absurd answer to this question.

Trump phoned into his good friends at Morning Joe for a little chat this week. Mostly, they try to give him pretty easy questions since thats what he has told them he prefers. Then this exchange happened: