The woman who had been in that coffin, seen by all those people, kissed by her sons, was not Val-Jean McDonald at all.

The revelation left Ms. McDonalds family angry and incredulous, and asking themselves hard questions: How could so many people not have recognized that the woman in the coffin was not Ms. McDonald? How could her sons have convinced themselves, to a man, that this stranger was their mother?

And how could a funeral home make such a mistake?

A spokesman for McCalls, George Arzt, declined to discuss specifics of the episode. We have spoken to the families affected and acknowledged our deepest sorrows, he said.

The states Division of Cemeteries is investigating the matter, a spokesman said. The states Bureau of Funeral Directing is conducting a review, a spokeswoman said.

Several of the McDonald brothers described a sort of collective acceptance that while the woman had not looked exactly like their mother, it was plausible that the combination of her time at the hospital on a respirator and the embalming process had altered her appearance. In short, they had all seen what they wanted to see  their mother.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its shameful, Richard McDonald said.

The family first viewed the body on the day of the funeral, in the coffin they had ordered, with their mothers name stitched into the fabric along the side. She was dressed in the pink blouse and the suit, and earrings and a wristwatch. The sons looked at the dead womans face.

We all did a double-take, Mr. McDonald, 55, pastor of the Love of Jesus Family Church in Jersey City, said. We thought something happened, and this is the best they could do.

A third son, Darryl McDonald, 51, had traveled to the funeral from Melbourne, Australia, where he is a basketball coach. I said, Rich, that doesnt look like Mom, he recalled. He told me shed been in the hospital for a long time. She had tubes and all, and her face could have changed. I was like, O.K.

No other theory seemed plausible. Youre in a funeral parlor, Darryl said. There is just no way thats not my mother. You would never think that.

Adults would not, anyway. Another of Ms. McDonalds granddaughters said that day that the woman did not look like her, and like Errol McDonalds son, she had been corrected.

A child would speak on it, said Leroy McDonald, 60, a fourth son. An adult says, Im sorry for your loss. Someone says, Thats not your mom, in a funeral home? That would be appalling.

He thought back to when he first saw the body. When you look from a distance, it looks like my mom, he said. You know what threw me off? The lady had my mothers clothes on.

More than 100 people attended the visitation hour before the funeral that evening, and more than that went to the ceremony, Richard McDonald, who officiated, said. He said the first floor of the church, which holds about 200 people, was filled, with others sitting upstairs. Several mourners, himself among them, eulogized the woman in the coffin, recalling Ms. McDonalds years of service with the United States Postal Service and her raising eight boys in a crowded Harlem apartment.

Photo

The next day, Ms. McDonalds children accompanied the coffin to Woodlawn, where it was received at the crematory. Later, Richard McDonald worried that he had forgotten to say his customary prayer  Ashes to ashes, dust to dust.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Then, on Jan. 5, the shattering call came. The manager at McCalls contacted Mr. McDonald to tell him of the mistake.

Photographs were taken of Ms. McDonald, still at the funeral home, and emailed to him.

Thats my mom, he replied. He called his brother Darryl, who was to fly back to Australia later that day.

He said, Are you sitting down? Darryl recalled. Remember when you said it wasnt Mom?

Darryl McDonald drove to McCalls to confirm the news. His mother was naked on a metal table under a sheet, he said.

The lady was apologizing, he said, referring to the funeral home manager. She only realized what she had done when she was looking for the other lady.

The brothers scheduled another cremation at Woodlawn on Jan. 9. There was a brief viewing, with Ms. McDonald in a white gown in a coffin similar to the first. Four members of her family saw her that day.

Photo

Side-by-side photographs of the two women in their coffins suggest they were roughly the same age and size, with similar dark complexions. The McDonald family did not learn the names of the other woman or her family.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When Ms. McDonald was cremated, Richard McDonald made sure to say the prayer that time: Ashes to ashes, dust to dust.

The owner of McCalls, James H. Alston, met with a reporter last Tuesday. I dont have any comments to make with respect to any of this, he said. He looked at photographs of the two women and said, Looks like the same woman to me, but declined to identify the one who had been cremated first.

We have a stellar record, Mr. Alston said, adding that McCalls has been in business for 50 years. We have a stellar reputation in this community. Were known for our care, compassion, professionalism, the quality of our work.

Mr. Arzt, the funeral homes spokesman in the matter, said, All aspects of the situation were shared with the appropriate government regulating agencies, and therefore we cannot say anything further. On Monday, he added that the McDonald family would be reimbursed for all costs, and that the family of the other woman was never charged for her cremation.

The director of Woodlawn Cemetery, David Ison, declined to comment. A spokesman for the Division of Cemeteries said there was no indication that the crematory violated any regulation; crematories cannot open coffins without good cause under state law, relying on funeral directors to provide the identity of the remains.

The McDonald family has, until now, told few people about what happened. Leroy McDonald said the people he had told had the same reply: I knew it!

Errol McDonald has heard similar responses, with friends and relatives telling him they thought something was wrong, but, as they put it, I didnt want to say anything.

Leroy McDonald claimed Ms. McDonalds remains, leaving McCalls with a parting shot that day: I said, You sure this is my mother now?