About three months ago, the Weekly Standards Bill Kristol, a prominent figure in Republican politics for many years, started asking on Twitter what to name the new political party GOP insiders will have to create if Donald Trump is the Republican nominee.

Asked about his sincerity, Kristol said at the time that he still didnt believe Trump would win his partys nomination, but the pundit/activist added that he was semi-serious about helping set up a new party, probably for 2016 only.

It seemed like idle speculation at the time, but I think its fair to believe thats no longer the case. The New York Times had this report over the weekend: New York Times

The names of a few well-known conservatives have been offered up in recent days as potential third-party standard-bearers, and William Kristol, editor of The Weekly Standard, has circulated a memo to a small number of conservative allies detailing the process by which an independent candidate could get on general-election ballots across the country. Among the recruits under discussion are Tom Coburn, a former Oklahoma senator who has told associates that he would be open to running, and Rick Perry, the former Texas governor who was suggested as a possible third-party candidate at a meeting of conservative activists on Thursday in Washington.

Well, if Bill Kristol has a memo, what could possibly go wrong?

The Weekly Standard editor told the Times that he doesnt believe its too late to put forward a viable independent candidate to compete against a Trump-led GOP ticket. I think the ballot access question is manageable, Kristol said. The big question is, whos the candidate?

Questions surrounding ballot access probably shouldnt be dismissed quite so quickly. Its an incredibly daunting challenge, especially for a conservative operation that faces long odds running against their own partys national ticket. The big question is arguably whod pay for such an endeavor, knowing in advance that 270 electoral votes is a practical impossibility.

But the process of selecting a candidate poses its own problems. If Trump prevails in the GOP race, its not clear whod participate in choosing a third-party rival, or which high-profile Republican would welcome the privilege of running against the Republican nominee.

Coburn, whose health issues were serious enough to prompt his retirement before the end of his final Senate term, didnt rule out the possibility when talking to the Times. Perry may seem like a better fit  the former governor actually wants to be president, having sought the office twice  but recent history suggests hes just not an especially strong candidate.

Still, the fact that such conversations are even underway is itself pretty interesting. Im skeptical anything will come of this, but the possibility has the potential to affect the overall race quite a bit.



Postscript: Jeff Miller, Rick Perrys former campaign manager, said on Twitter over the weekend, With all due respect to [Kristol] and donors who have called. Where were you when [Perry] was actually running?