Topics: samantha bee, Fox News, Editor's Picks, Elections 2016, TV, Television, Tom Shillue, red eye, Race, Innovation News, Technology News, Entertainment News, News, Politics News

Since the debut of her new TBS show, Full Frontal, Samantha Bee has been stirring things up. From her first episode she hit the ground running, leading many to wonder why she hadnt been offered Trevor Noahs seat as host of The Daily Show. In only four short weeks, Full Frontal has become a go-to site for the sort of sharp, edgy political comedy our nation so desperately needs.

She has stated that Ted Cruz has stage four cancer of the personality, she went after senators blocking a Supreme Court nominee because some chinless dildo wants to use his gavel to plug up your abortion hole, and she sat down with college-educated Trump supporters to try to understand how anyone with any intelligence could back the bigoted gasbag.

Following the legacy of Jon Stewart, Bee is not just offering us the sort of snarky comedy we need to make sense of ridiculous times, she is also providing a helpful corrective to the news media circus. Her viewers are not just entertained; they are informed.

So its no surprise that her show has already incited the right into a frenzy. Each week with each new episode her segments draw the ire and condemnation of conservative outlets. reitbart called one segment from her premiere an all-out assault against Republicans. The piece went on to complain that Bee manipulated a number of clips aimed at making Republican presidential candidates appear reckless and unintelligent. Newsbusters described her as a witch who was bewitching liberals.

But last week things escalated and she became the target of Fox Newss own satire show, Red Eye hosted by Tom Shillue. According to Shillue, Bee took a clip from his show out of context. The effect for Shillue is nothing less than a comedy scandal.

If you thought it was weird to imagine Fox News with a satire show, it is certainly even weirder to imagine that the show is describing itself as comically superior to Bee.

Red Eye airs at 3 a.m., a sign that, even though Fox News wanted to enter into the satire news genre, they didnt try too hard. The first host was Greg Gutfeld (2007-2015) who went on to host The Greg Gutfeld Show for Fox News. Shillue, who has had cameos on Jimmy Fallon and worked with Jim Gaffigan, took over as host last year.

Red Eye opens by covering a story and offering a monologue by Shillue that is then followed by a panel discussion. The bulk of the comedy is frat boy humor that does nothing more than mock dumb news stories, make fun of liberals and the left, and offer the occasional Donald Trump joke as balance. The best and more ironic part of the show is offered by Andy Levy, who does a running segment called the Halftime Report where he corrects mistakes made by the host and panelists and critiques their positions.

So what is the so-called comedy scandal with Full Frontal all about? Shillue claims that Bee misrepresented a race segment on Red Eye with selective editing. According to Shillue, Bee only aired part of a larger segment, which offered more nuance on the issue than the clip Full Frontal aired.

The segment in question aired last week when Full Frontal celebrated Black History Month by bringing out staffer Ashley Black to share her ideas about how white people have ruined it. Surprising Bee, Black explained how she hates the whole idea of Black History Month since it just gives white people a chance to criticize contemporary African American activism: Stop pretending you wouldve marched with Martin Luther King when you dont like anyone whos marched since, Black said. To illustrate the point, Full Frontal then showed a clip of Red Eye host Shillue saying I like Martin Luther King and I dont like Black Lives Matter.