Topics: Vinyl, HBO, TV, Music, Iggy Pop, David Bowie, Andy Warhol, Entertainment News

This story has been corrected since it was originally published.

UPDATE: HBO has confirmed it was actually David Bowies voice heard last night during Suffragette City. The Official David Bowie page on Facebook has noted that the version of Suffragette City used in the episode is the original studio recording, heavily reverbed. The distortion of the studio recording to make it sound like a live rehearsal version rendered Bowies voice unrecognizable to this critic.

Cyclone, the sixth episode of Vinyl, the HBO drama from Martin Scorsese about the music business in the 1970s, opens with main character Richie Finestra (Bobby Cannavale) on a major, multi-day cocaine bender (no, seriously, even bigger than previously). He runs out of a rehearsal studio as the unmistakable chords of none other than Suffragette City by David Bowie roar out of a Les Paul, the edge of which swings into the corner of your screen, and you realize what has to be next.

At that moment, your reaction will likely be one of the following:

1) Oh god no

2) Its too soon

3) This is terrible

And then David Bowie and the Spiders from Mars will appear, performing Suffragette City.

Did you ever notice how many David Bowie cover bands there are? Almost none, and this episode of Vinyl clearly displays why. Lets start with what we hear: Suffragette City seems like a basic rock and roll song, but its actually more complex than it might appear on the surface. And it was Mick Ronsons skill and facility with the instrument and the tone he got out of his guitar that makes it sound so stripped down and essential, not because its an easy song to play right, or well.

The other problem isand this is also true for Lou Reeds backing band in Episode 5theres no such thing as an instant rock band. Session musicians will certainly sound polished, professional and competent, but theres a specific sonic dynamic (as well as an energy) that comes from playing with each other day in and day out over an extended period of time. So that is always going to be missing when Vinyl needs to have a band performing music, both in the recorded music and the energy on screen from the actors portraying the band.

The biggest problem with this version of Suffragette City played on Vinyl is that its a wan, pale approximation of the real thing, and there is no way that anyone wasnt going to seem like a wan, pale approximation of David Bowie because its David goddamn Bowie. But even with all of that, when listening to the Vinyl version of the song repeatedly on headphones trying to be objective, there still isnt any life or spark, and without it, its a lot of sound and fury signifying nothing. The writers of the show scripted this scene to include as much of the song as they did for a reason; yes, its technically a rehearsal but if it was just a rehearsal or a soundcheck they could have included a verse and a couple of riffs and been done with it. The song is included in the show in this position and at this length because its an important song on the continuum that the Nasty Bits are about to try to fit into. It is here for necessary context, and it should make your auditory ossicles vibrate with joy. That does not happen.

The other problem will be that Noah Bean, who plays Bowie, has zero English accent. He does manage to approximate some of Bowies physical demeanor both in performance (although, again, Bowie was just so much more lithe, even in platform shoes, probably due to his training as a mime), in his spoken intonation (despite the lack of accent), and in his interaction with Andrea Zito (Annie Parisse). But he looks more like David Cassidy than he does David Bowie, and that just ruins the initial performance shot and shadows the rest of the scene.