One pressing question facing the city is what to do with the people who still live in the bunkers. Estimates of their numbers range from 150,000 to a million. Nearly every apartment building in the Digua Shequ centers neighborhood has a former shelter or a basement. Most of the residential units in them are rented out for 500 to 900 renminbi a month, or roughly $77 to $138  about one-third of what it would cost to live aboveground.

Workers wages arent rising as fast as the cost of living, said Xu Tong, who both rents out and lives in an underground space in eastern Beijing. If you get rid of these basement units, where will the migrants live?

Government data shows that migrant workers wages increased about 14 percent in 2014 from a year earlier, compared with a nearly 22 percent increase in their cost of living. Mr. Xus lease illustrates the uncertainty about how serious the governments ban on underground dwellings is: Although the new rule takes effect in 2017, his contract does not expire until 2019.

Migrant workers use of the former bomb shelters remains a delicate topic. After The New York Times submitted an interview request to the neighborhood committee, Mr. Zhou said, an official there who supports the project called him and recommended that he not mention the floating population or northern drifters  two euphemisms for migrant workers.

So far, Digua Shequs work remains an exceptional case for having legally repurposed the spaces under the new rules. Currently, the Civil Air Defense Department of Beijing grants one-year leases on former bomb shelters to individuals and companies.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The order to end residential use means that some stand to lose a source of revenue, as few local officials and landlords are willing to spend to transform the units into commercial spaces. As a result, many shelters and basements occupied before the ban was announced are still being quietly rented out as housing.

Photo

Its like a wave, said Wang Jinhui, who runs a hotel in a former bomb shelter near the Digua Shequ center. You just put your head down and wait for it to pass.

He has rented out the space since 1998 and is optimistic that the political will to enforce the new regulations will dissipate.

Theyve said theyd clean out these underground spaces for years and not succeeded, Mr. Wang said. It just might be that places like mine will survive.

Subletting underground spaces can be lucrative. A lease for an entire basement or shelter typically costs about 150,000 renminbi a year, but subdividing the space can generate far more income. The shelter that Digua Shequ took over once housed more than 100 residents who together paid nearly 600,000 renminbi a year, Mr. Zhou said.

A lot of landlords have spent money renovating the spaces they lease, so they dont want to stop renting out basements, said Guo Chengbao, a security guard who was once a basement landlord. He lives in an underground unit above the Digua Shequ center.

Private investors have also been eyeing underground spaces. Renovating the basement that now houses the Digua Shequ center cost nearly 3 million renminbi, most of which was covered by Feng Lun, the founder of Vantone Holdings and its real estate subsidiary, Vantone Real Estate.

In an interview with Mr. Zhou for the online series Wind Horse Cow, which Mr. Feng produces, the Vantone founder explained his interest in the project.

Todays Headlines: Asia Edition Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.

Weve constructed a lot of buildings, he said, but theres no one today who is operating underground spaces like this. If other real estate developers came and saw your space, they might invite you to develop their underground spaces during construction.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Feng did not respond to a request for an interview.

Mr. Zhous project was noticed by a sympathetic official and partly financed by the local and municipal governments as a promising model for Beijings other bomb shelters and basements. With the support of the neighborhood committee, Digua Shequ got a lease and is negotiating to turn another shelter in the Haidian district into a second community center.

No one had a very nuanced understanding of these places, Mr. Zhou said. Everyone thought only poor people lived in them and that they were dark and dirty.

Mr. Zhou tried several different models before arriving at his plan for the community center. At first, he ran a training program for young workers, but attendance was too inconsistent. He considered turning basements into libraries but then observed that residents used similar areas as restrooms rather than as places for borrowing books. After studying theories about the sharing economy, Mr. Zhou hit on the idea of transforming basements into community centers.

The entrance to the Digua Shequ center is like that of any other bomb shelter: rusting metal gates at street level that open onto a ramp down into the chilly, subterranean darkness. The ramp ends at a bright orange steel door set into mottled concrete, behind which lies the centers warmly lit interior.

Renovations began on the shelter in 2015, after three years of surveying residents about what they wanted in a community center. When the new space opens on Friday, it will feature a 3-D printing station, co-working spaces and a movie theater.

Mr. Zhou said that underground dwellings might never be eliminated entirely because of the different interests at play, but that he hoped the Digua Shequ model would be replicated in other neighborhoods. He said he saw it as a chance to transcend differences in social class and origin.

Mr. Guo, the security guard, likes what it has done so far. After work, he sometimes eats dinner in the community space.

Ive lived in Beijing for 14 years. Before, I didnt know any of the people who lived upstairs, he said, laughing. Now, were all familiar with each other.