PARIS  The Belgian authorities on Monday identified a man suspected of being an accomplice of Salah Abdeslam, who was captured on Friday and charged with terrorist murder in the Paris attacks of Nov. 13. They had asked for the publics help in finding him.

The man was identified as Najim Laachraoui, 24, a Belgian citizen who went to Syria in February 2013. Mr. Laachraoui, going by the name Soufiane Kayal, was one of two men using fake Belgian identification cards who were with Mr. Abdeslam in a Mercedes on Sept. 9 as they passed through a checkpoint between Hungary and Austria.

Twice that month, Mr. Abdeslam traveled to the Hungarian capital, Budapest, using a rental car.

A man using the false identity of Soufiane Kayal later rented a house in the town of Auvelais, about 30 miles south of Brussels, that was searched on Nov. 26.

The authorities found Mr. Laachraouis DNA at the house in Auvelais and also at a house on Rue Henri Berg, in the Schaerbeek section of Brussels, that was searched on Dec. 10. In the property on Rue Henri Berg, investigators found traces of TATP, which has become the signature explosive for Islamic State operations in Europe. TATP can be made with common household products and was an ingredient in the suicide vests used in the Paris assaults. Mr. Abdeslams fingerprints were also found at the house.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At a news conference on Monday afternoon, Frdric Van Leeuw, the federal prosecutor in Brussels, said he and his counterpart, Franois Molins, the public prosecutor of Paris, had met to go over the investigation, which Mr. Van Leeuw said has greatly evolved over the last few days.

Mr. Van Leeuw added: We know that the investigation is not over. And as you may have seen with our press release from today, there are other individuals who need to be found and explain themselves.

Photo

Along with Mr. Abdeslam, four other people were arrested on Friday. French authorities are seeking his extradition from Belgium, a process that Mr. Molins said could take as long as three months, if Mr. Abdeslam resists.

On Monday, it was not known whether Mr. Abdeslam was helping investigators.

It is clear that if Mr. Abdeslam decides to give us some explanation, this will enlighten the investigation and perhaps allow us to clarify gray areas, Mr. Van Leeuw said, seated next to Mr. Molins. The role of each one, is still too early to confirm. We have a lot of pieces of the puzzle and lately, more pieces have found their place, but we are still far from having completed the puzzle. But we hope to go as far as possible.

After criticism of intelligence failures before the Nov. 13 attacks  which killed 130 people and wounded more than 400 the two countries have tried to improve cooperation on counterintelligence.

Mr. Van Leeuw said that his office opened 315 terrorism cases last year and that it had opened 60 more so far this year. Mr. Molins said that his office was working on 244 terrorism cases, and that 772 people were under investigation in those cases.

Along with Mr. Laachraoui, the authorities are also searching for Mohamed Abrini, 31, who was recorded by a surveillance video camera with Mr. Abdeslam two days before the Paris attacks  around 7 p.m. on Nov. 11  at a gas station in Ressons-sur-Matz, France, on the highway to Paris.

Mr. Laachraoui appears to have studied electromechanical engineering at a Catholic high school in Schaerbeek, the Institut de la Sainte-Famille dHelmet, according to an alumni newsletter.

An official at the school confirmed that a pupil with the name Najim Laachraoui graduated from the school in 2009, and that the school had no indication of any problems with him. But she declined to provide his date or place of birth or any additional details.